# June 10, 2024
Today was just another day at the office. I'd say the week started well, though
I had a hangover because I decided to drink some port the night before. I 
suppose I could go for another drink now, though  my stomach  is a little 
unsettled from the Indian food that I ate.

I feel like I'm going crazy, or rather the world is going crazy and I'm the only
sane person left. Grandiose, and delusional, of course, but it's how I feel. 
Everyone knows that things are shit. All the heavy hitters are hell-bent on 
making us all distrust each other, push each other apart, forget what it's like
to just talk to another human being. A human who may be flawed, have some weird
views on things, but ultimately is their own person with their own stories and
lived experiences that they want to share.

There are also those who don't have any souls, to be sure. Who are... all too 
willing to ignore pain and suffering if it means they can live a carefully 
curated existence. You know the type. And then insufferable assholes like 
myself, who just complain about how shitty everything is but then offer 
nothing to make things better.

What can we do, against the United States Government, against Microsoft, against
a system that doesn't seem to care about the poor, the disenfranchised, the 
youth? When people are willing to not only throw their time, energy, and money
into propping up systems and people that literally kill our very souls? I'm 
thinking of Elon pumpers, who are out there begging people to give the world's
richest man $55 billion more. Even other billionaires think this is gauche, but
you have honest-to-goodness upper-middle-class wealthy wannabes out there, 
spending their time, energy, and money trying to funnel even more money up the 
pyramid... out of an almost religious sense of obligation. Where does it come 
from? It makes me so sick, to think that one's view of reality can be twisted
in such a way that that line of thought makes sense. You lose sense of the real
world, of what really matters, and how things really are.

I don't want to be okay with the way the world is headed, where we're all locked
into our little curated, virtual gardens, where the likes of Meta, Twitter, 
Google, and Microsoft can farm us for data and then sell that to other faceless
entities. Thousands of miles of undersea cable laid for more information to flow 
between giant datacenters and stock exchanges, entire ecosystems built around
the practice of turning human beings and their little wants and preferences 
into things that can be monetized, that can be sold. Every iota of one's 
personality eventually turning into a commodity that can be traded the same 
way a dogecoin can be. Social capital turning into real capital, and no 
introspection, no reflection, on what this could mean for us as eternal beings.

Why _do_ we insist that such things aren't part of the "real world"? That 
questions about the soul should be dealt with on our own free time, outside of 
work and study? Why should STEAM be valued so much more highly than this most
fundamental part of being alive? Don't _you_ want to know what happens after
you die? Or even right when you're about to die?

I love to build things, and I love to tinker, but I don't feel the energy to do
any of that these days. My soul is dried up, I barely feel the warmth I used to
feel about life and living. I've lost hope; I've lost a lot of it, because I 
don't see the point of living anymore, or at least, it's just very hard for me
to remember what it is.

## Nostalghia
For some reason, that scene of Andrei walking across the drained mineral pool
from the movie _Nostalghia_ popped up in my head last night, and I couldn't stop
thinking about it. Because I don't like thinking for myself, I went to wikipedia
and tvtropes and reddit to see what people would have to say about it, but the 
conversation just felt too sparse for me. There were good lines of thought, 
make no mistake about that, but the conversations never went really too deep 
because, well, I guess it's just not that popular of a film, to be honest, and
it does have a whiff of the auteur whose use of symbolism and metaphor are just 
a little too deft and subtle for a simple **moron** like you to understand.

I just remember when I saw it in the theater, I had that same knot form in my
stomach that I get whenever I have to do something extremely tedious, like 
filling out tax forms, or answering a slew of really boring emails, or writing
documentation for a software project that I'm working on. It was a tedious 
scene, watching him painfully shuffle left and right, listening to his breathing
get more and more painful, and biting my tongue to prevent myself from just 
shouting "aw come on!" when his candle went out for like the second time.

I stumbled across this anecdote in which Oleg Yankovsky, the actor, shared this
about what was on Tarkovsky's mind regarding that scene:

> the director asked the actor to help him fulfill a grand idea to 
> “display an entire human life in one shot, without any editing, from 
> beginning to end, from birth to the very moment of death.” Tarkovsky 
> visualized life in the form of a candle. “Remember the candles in Orthodox 
> churches, how they flicker. The very essence of things, the spirit, the spirit 
> of fire.” And so the act of carrying the candle across the stagnant pool was 
> nothing less than the effort of an entire lifetime encapsulated in one 
> gesture. “If you can do that,” Tarkovsky challenged Yankovsky, “if it really 
> happens and you carry the candle to the end–in one shot, straight, without 
> cinematic conjuring tricks and cut-in editing—then maybe this act will be the 
> true meaning of my life. It will certainly be the finest shot I ever took—if 
> you can do it, if you can endure to the end.”

In that sense, I suppose he knocked it out of the park. It was painful to watch,
and there was no doubt that, as you were watching it, that the scene was about
more than just some dude crossing a pool carrying a candle. It was also 
extremely obvious that a metaphor about life was somewhere in there as well, 
what with the labored breathing and walking, the flickering flame, and the fact
that he straight-up fucking died when he finally made it to the other side of 
the pool.

But... just because a thing's obvious, doesn't mean it's any less potent, or 
perhaps impactful. At least, for me. I think I enjoy that scene, if not the act
of actually watching it, at least its simple existence, and the purpose for 
which it was created. I think Tarkovsky just wanted to make a blunt comparison
between life and fire, and then make all the associations you want to from 
there. It flickers. It can be bullied by small breezes. It provides warmth and
gives light and life to other things. It itself is alive, in a sense. Souls
burn, yadda yadda yadda. It's fun to go down these paths, and just contemplate
one's own existence as a little flame in the big, bad, metaphysical abyss.